[Music]
three years ago our land looked like
this
you
three years later and a lot of hard work
our land now looks like this
[Music]
this all started after myself and my
wife bought a 42 acre piece of land that
had been for sale for quite some time
[Music]
it was heavily treated with invasive
maple trees that had not been thinned or
maintained ever
[Music]
while these trees were invasive we
didn't want to remove all of them but we
did want to remove enough to have a
usable piece of land
[Music]
after hand drawing the plans for a
fairly simple house we got our permit to
build and the work began
initially the house was going to be
right around 1,600 square feet with a
few bedrooms upstairs in one great room
downstairs we are good to go
initially the plan was to subcontract
out the things we weren't comfortable
doing do the things we were comfortable
doing try to save money in between and
wrap it up in a 30-year mortgage because
our land is 2.6 miles from the nearest
powerline
nobody wanted to finance the project
this caused us to do some serious
reflection and reevaluate just in fact
what we could and couldn't do
I have 15 years in the plumbing trade
but above and beyond that I had zero
other construction experience good help
has been hard to find
[Music]
we started with the septic system got a
little bit of help from a few friends to
pour the foundation and from that point
on basically did everything ourselves
up to this point I had very little
framing experience I had framed up maybe
a shed and a little bit of interior work
in a remodel but that was it
I did what I knew how to do I talked to
the right people when I didn't know what
to do
[Music]
I looked for discounts where I could get
them paid cash as we went
[Music]
conventionally framed the entire house
and did virtually everything myself
[Music]
along the way we battled every kind of
weather you can think of
[Music]
along the way I've lost a few things
mainly a few pounds but I found
something that has given me more purpose
in life than almost anything else
[Music]
when the cost to build an average home
in the area is north of a hundred and
fifty dollars a square foot we've
managed to keep our costs around $16 a
square foot
[Music]
after getting the lower portion of the
land thinned and cleared and as we began
to understand just in fact the beauty
that we had we felt that the rustic
doug-fir siding would be perfect up here
[Music]
my trusty sidekick Ruger has never let
me down regardless of the conditions
[Music]
because the bank told us no it forced me
to figure out ways to save money which
ultimately meant that I was going to do
everything from the septic system to the
gas line to the electrical to the
roofing to the siding to the solar
system everything that will be necessary
to give us the 21st century comforts
that we're looking for
I had never done anything significant
with electrical but I had a couple of
good friends that were willing to talk
me through it as I had questions our
only source of heat is a wood-burning
stove in the last three years that we've
owned the land we've had as much as four
feet of snow
we framed the house to handle well over
a hundred pound snow load
as we got deeper into construction we
realized that we needed more room our
intentions are to keep everything
associated with a solar system inside
the house we've had more challenges
along the way than I could have ever
imagined
there have been moments where I wondered
if this would ever come to an end
there have been moments where I figured
out why nobody had ever built a house up
here in the first place the end result
is we're three years into this in the
house is nearly finished
we have nearly a 2,000 square foot house
that's very well built that we love it's
paid for
[Music]
we poured another 400 square feet of
concrete which gave us a utility room
for the water heater and everything
associated with the solar system as well
as another bedroom in the bathroom we've
had just as many ups as we've had downs
along the way but we're in the
homestretch
[Music]
we're moments away from moving in
while we have many other projects like a
root cellar like building my shop like
building a cabin on the back section of
our property we first can't wait to just
move in
I then dug a shallow well ran over a
thousand feet of waterline to a water
tank that's over a hundred feet above
the house
[Music]
after hauling the water tank up the hill
and getting it properly positioned
getting the solar well pumps in place we
have water
[Music]
there's no question that hindsight is
always 20/20
[Music]
knowing what I know now if I could go
back to the beginning and start over I
most definitely would have done things
different
[Music]
I most definitely would have avoided
some of the mistakes I've made and some
of the changes that we've had to embrace
but what's the point if this was easy
everybody would be doing it sometimes
it's hard to know what we're capable of
until we're put in situations where we
just have to get things done
[Music]
I've made mistakes I will make more
mistakes I promise but anything worth
doing is gonna be hard this is probably
the hardest thing I've ever done in my
life
[Music]
second only to being a husband and a
father it's definitely one of the most
rewarding things I've ever done we've
got a lot more projects to come and I've
got a lot more learning to do
[Music]
my shop foundation walls have been
waiting for me for two years that's also
on the short list
[Music]
the upstairs is nearly finished with
drywall I'm about to transition to the
downstairs drywall then it's paint
kitchen cabinets then we'll probably
move in we've saved more money along the
way than I ever could have imagined we
are nearly finished with our mortgage
free home living in one of the most
beautiful spots on the planet as hard as
this has been we wouldn't change it for
the world we have individual playlists
of every phase of construction that
we've gone through nearly 300 videos
[Music]
don't forget to subscribe to see what
the next three years look like
you